>> Mike North: So,
let's look at the rules we have and
then I want us to discuss how we might
implement additional rules here.
So we have don't put
your plant out of bounds,
don't plant plants on top of other plants.
We've got an interesting
parametric rule here.
And I say that because unlike these
first two, it takes arguments.
And so what we're saying,
this one's a little weird, but
planting beds can never
be more than 80% full.
And so we can see that one in action.
If we go and just try to copy,
copy, copy, copy, and
eventually it's going to say
you've crossed the threshold.
This is one that we
should probably remove.
It's just sort of an example
of something we could do.
Like this doesn't make sense in the
context of if I'm putting my gardener hat
on, like I absolutely want to plant plant
things everywhere in the raised bed that
I'm allowed.
Then we could restrict plants in zones.
We have specific plant.
Like here we're looking at sunlight
requirements where each zone
has a sun level.
And in this case we're saying,
well, tomatoes for
some reason are the only thing.
There's a special case rule for
tomatoes and sun.
Then here is an adjacency based rule.
What we're looking for
here is if I can scan through real quick,
you can pass in a array of plant
incompatibilities and a reason.
If we look how this is wired up,
just going to have to grab the usage
of this in the garden page.
So tomatoes and potatoes can't be planted
next to each other for some reason.
If we were to drag.
Do we have a potato here?
Nightshade, I don't see it,
but let's just change it.
Let's say carrots, And
I should be prevented
from putting this here.
Tomatoes and
carrots should not be planted together.
Great.
We have a flexible framework here.
Let's model some constraints.
I'm going to shift into my gardener mode.
Given what we already have, which is
in bounds, not on top of each other.
That's the very basics that is adhering
to what it means to be things on a grid.
We've got adjacency, we've got
characteristics of the bed
versus plant needs.
So if we put our gardener hat on,
what are some other rules that
we may want to think about here?
>> Speaker 2: I mean, realistically,
let's say I know nothing and probably,
probably know next to
nothing about gardening.
I would ask you, the gardener, considering
that these are what we've talked about so
far, right?
Like These are the things you don't do.
Just ask a simple question,
like when you're planting what you know,
which plants don't you want
to plant next to each other?
And why?
Are there any other circumstances
where you wouldn't plant a given plant
that you haven't listed?
It's a little general, I think, but I.
I don't.
Without getting the answer to that,
I don't know how to suss
out any more specifics.
>> Mike North: No, I think that's.
That's a great way to start here.
So in this commit here,
we're already modeling this
concept of something called companion and
antagonist plants.
Sorry, I'm trying to arrange
something very specifically here.
These are these little
circles that are showing up.
I'm trying to get a more interesting one.
That's a great one there.
And I wanna drop garlic in and
mess everything up.
So these indicators,
like the little red semicircle,
this is where we can say, like,
there's something about one
plant that hurts the other.
And right now all we're doing
is we're lighting up indicators.
But you could imagine, like,
a strict mode here where we could say,
look, clearly we already have this data.
Like, we have these indicators.
Maybe we just prevent.
Maybe it's just like an invalid
placement to drop anything where
you're creating a problem.
Like this garlic literally does.
It ruins things around it.
Whereas these are kind
of companion effects.
Now, granted,
we're talking about blocking actions, but
you could imagine a validation rule that's
shaped a little bit differently that says,
all right, there is a more optimal
way to arrange this garden.
You have inadvertently defeated all of the
beneficial effects from plant placement.
But that might fit more into
an optimization concept.
For now,
let's go with where this conversation led.
We clearly have plant interactions
that are harmful, and
those are clearly, like,
evaluated, you know, as.
As we move things around, like you
can see on the corner on the side.
So let's.
Rather than just sort of
like lighting this up,
let's reject the placement of the plant.
If that happens,
we can build a rule for that.
So let's jump in.
So what we'll do is we're gonna create
a new ValidationRule in this sort
of namespace for them, and
eventually we'll end up adding it here.
So we'll go back to this point here.
We'll add it right on top, and
we'll call this prevent
antagonist plant adjacency.
And this is a ValidationRule that
operates on the same plant item.
And
It's just telling us we need to
return the appropriate thing.
So first, let's return the object.
The name.
We'll just call it something like that.
This might be in a tooltip, so
I don't want to get too long.
And we can start out with,
like, sorry, fat arrow.
We can start out with saying,
we're going to always reject this thing.
Now, what we need to return is
something called a validation result.
And this just is a type that
kind of Represents this
returning an error
rather than throwing it.
It's just.
Is it valid?
What's the reason?
So let's just see if
something gets thrown and
we'll add a comma,
we'll wire this rule up.
That's fine.
I'm gonna go back to garden page.
And just like that,
prevent antagonist plant adjacency.
And what this should do is basically like
anything we try to do, we should see.
No, because I said so.
Zooming out.
I said so.
All right, so we see that clearly
we're falling down the path of like,
this is invalid.
Now, let's worry about making a real
determination of whether this
should be allowed or not.
So what we can do in terms
of finding this information,
it happens to be on
the workspace because it kind of
makes sense from a domain
modeling standpoint to say,
like, this is just like known
information about plants.
Right?
It's not like this one garlic plant.
Like one of seven should really not be
placed next to tomato plant number six.
This is really on a category
by category basis.
Like, garlics and
tomatoes should not be together.
And so this almost at the same
level as seed packets.
And the information about seeds and
the way tomatoes grow and
the way tomatoes work, it doesn't have
to do with positioning on the grid.
Now there's something
that's derived from it,
but in terms of the interactions between
plants, we might model it that way and
just say category A and
category B are helpful or harmful.
Here's how that works.
Let's explore how this is modeled.
We've got an indicator and
there's an ID for it, just so
we can keep track of when
they're presented in the ui.
We can go look up information
to display about.
Is this harmful?
Is this helpful?
We've got an interaction effect, and
this is an item type like tomatoes or
basil.
And then the nature of the effect,
which is beneficial, harmful, or neutral,
and then a description
to present in a tooltip.
These are directional effects.
If you have things that
are mutually beneficial,
they just have one in either direction.
These can stack up and they can be used
to drive this UI that we get here.
Where in this case,
lettuce is good for tomatoes,
tomatoes are good for lettuce, and we have
that bidirectional beneficial effect.
Each of these green boxes
is one of those effects.
So let's use that and evaluate whether
the placement will result
in effects being felt.
Great, so we've got our indicators and
yeah, that's great.
We'll extract that out, destructure it.
And we also want to, for
the current placement,
we want to kind of look at neighbors.
And so I'm going to just borrow
a pattern from down here and
say which one would be a good one.
Incompatible plants.
This seems,
this seems like a good place to start.
In fact, what we could do.
This is a little bit of a cheat.
How do we regard plant one and
plant two here?
Yep, they're already based
on plant categories.
So all we would need to
do is kind of leverage
this already existing rule and
we can, in fact,
I wanna structure this
differently now because we
have plant validation
roles incompatible plants.
We can then say indicators, dot map and
we can just generate a bunch of rules that
are sort of stemming
from this incompatible
plants function that already exists.
Yeah.
This will be fairly simple.
So prevent antagonist plant adjacency.
We'll go over here.
Great.
That type checks.
Now what we want is let's assume
there are other things that
already detect to see,
is this an invalid placement or not?
We've got a target X and Y.
And let's just start by seeing
is there a plant to my left that
I'm an antagonist with?
Or let's start with an even more basic
concept like is there anything in my
raised bed that I
shouldn't be planted near?
We can begin there and
we need some more things off of context,
like the target zone,
the target X and Y.
And then we can kind of cycle
through the indicators and
see if like there's anything else in
the zone that might like the plant that's
attempting to be placed,
which is going to be one more thing.
We need the item.
Right.
Something that I don't want to be near.
And we'll type this
appropriately in a second.
Okay, effect has a target item type id.
So for now we're going to be selfish and
we'll say like,
if there's anything that affects me badly,
let's make sure that
I'm not planted there.
So if the effect is
equal to item category,
relevant indicators,
push effect or something like that.
And we'll say is valid is based on whether
we found any relevant indicators.
So we're saying like some number of
indicators poorly affect this plant and
we need to scope this
actually within the bed.
So rather than just pushing,
we need to look through
the target zone placements and
see if any of these placements in the bed.
Actually, like, without adding this
condition here, we're just going to say
like, in this world, do there exist
negative indicators that affect me?
And so now we're saying like,
in the target zone, are there plants?
Okay, so just to add some comments,
like for all indicators, for
each effect of the indicator,
if it affects the plant being dragged,
that's the right arrangement.
And the plant.
Like creating the negative
effect hurts me.
Consider it to be relevant
as a blocker for placement.
And one last thing we
have to throw into this.
So if effect nature is harmful and
if the effect is harmful and
the item being placed.
Yeah, and sorry, not the item being
placed, the thing we already found to
exist in the bed is something that
creates that effect is valid.
We have our condition flipped.
We're saying it's only valid if
there are indicators are relevant
indicators that are greater than zero.
Let's log real quick.
One more thing we could do here is
log indicator or log each effect.
So we should at least see a bunch
of stuff cycle through here.
Okay, Plant onions, garlic.
Plant broccoli, beneficial.
And let's log the item being
placed as well just so
we can see all that
information real clear.
And I just want to focus in like the one,
the antagonist one here.
There it is.
Broccoli, beneficial.
Peas, all right,
so this is if target
item type ID is piece,
we'll log there.
And this should be item.
I think it's item id, not item category.
That would explain it.
All right, one more try with feeling.
Broccoli moves over here.
Fine.
Garlic moves up here, peas.
One indicator negatively
affects sugar snap peas.
So now we have this like
nice database of or
nice representation of like, which
plants don't get along with each other.
And you could imagine how we could do
it in the other direction as well,
where like if you're a plant and you
introduce negative indicators into the bed
that you're being placed into,
then you could have this flag as well.
But part of the value here is this
idea of bothering to formalize
something like validation logic
into its own data structure.
So that you could imagine if we
have 30 rules that stack up for
some reason,
say we get into modeling irrigation and
sunlight and things like that,
you're able to very effectively
unit test these things and
pass that context object in and
make sure that each piece of logic
is modular and they all stack up and
it doesn't become a big monolithic
part of your code base.
That's a bunch of these essential
constraints that matter to your user.